Osity

Since the year 2000, it became apparent that the digital revolution was ahead of us. Come 2023, we could not imagine the state of the world
constant warefare threats the continuity of humanity, people are more polarized and sure of themselves, and there seems to be a heavy
gloom on the future of technology. I can agree with many of these statements and I mark the issue on one reason, identity.

Essence
Essence is you. It is what you think, what you say, how you react, and what you beleive in. Before the year 2000, our essence was
confined to one realm, the physical world. Because of this we were relavilty grounded with who we were. Most of the news we heard was locally,
our friends reinforced our beliefs, and we rarely got to see or meet people from around the world with differing beleifs. 
This is how humans lived since the beginning of time; in small circles. Circa 2000, our lives all of a sudden became much more open,
open to the goodness, the war, crime, ideas, of the world. This very idea changed the way society functioned, and it everso changed 
how humanity operated.

2 Worlds
The world is split into two, the physical world, contrived of atoms, and digital world, contrived of bits. 
In the physical world, you are 1 of 1, but in the digital world you are 1 of N. For the first time in the history of the world
you could be whoever you wanted. You could saw whatever you wanted without consequences, for the better or worse. Yet as I've 
observed this has fundamentally destroyed the fabric of society, humans have not evolved to live a life 1 of N, it simply
goes against who we are.

Authentication was first, and proof of personhood is next. But proof of personhood cannot follow the tracks of authentication, it can use 
them as insipration.

Authentication 
- I am something
- I know something
- I have something

Proof of Personhood
Proof of personhood is simply proving that you are indeed a human. More importantly it is proving that you are who you say you are.
Proof of personhood is an underexplored idea, although I beleive it is extremely important, and it's implications for development
must be taken with the most about of thought.

To prove that you are indeed a human and who you say you are, there are a few soultions.

Web of trust (Social Network)
The web of trust authenticates a person through their surrondings. I'm reliant on my friends to prove I am in fact who I am. 
This model falls apart if you some how lose your friends.

Identification (KYC)
Identification is the authentication form whereby a third party says you are who you are. This would most likely be a government.
As you have learned in history, governments are not perfect, they become corrupt, and eventually fall. This is not a good solution,
unless you want to pawn off your freedom.

Biometrics
Biometrics are more independent, you authenticate you are you by simply being yourself. Biometrics can be spoofed with some effort,
and a great deal of effort goes into securing biometrics data. Biometric data also does not scale, as there is not enough randomness.

Of all the listed ways to prove personhood, none are satisfactory for the future. In the following paragraph I explain why, 
and my hope is that it becomes apparent.

Essence
Instead of looking at seperate parts of an indivdaul, what I know, and who I am. Essence looks at the system as a whole. It can see
changes in the system, changes in you and anticipate them.

Continuous Authentication

Several methods of continuous authentication exist. You can examine someones keystrokes, behavior on an app, or monitor their face.


Why 
Why is proof of personhood important? Welp if it not apparent, you should obtain the same rights as you do in the physical world
as you do in the real world. What does this mean in practice? Big tech should not own your data, they should not control what you
see, and they should not own you. This statement may seem obvious, but I think we have forgotten that it is currently not true.
We don't own our data, we don't own our thoughts, we don't hve the choice of determining what we see, and we have become 
slaves to the machine.

What is Osity?
Osity is about living in the real world in a seamless way, the way that technology should have been created, as a tool. Continous authentication
is what makes osity possible. It is the link between the magic of technology and soundness of the real world.

A world I imagine.
A world I imagine and hope to live to see is a world whereby I unlock my house by simply just walking in, unlock and start my car  
by simply walking up to it and opening the door, walking into the subway and getting on a train where I'm automatically charged, 
paying for something by the shake of a hand. All of this may sound like magic, but it is not, it is frictionless. That what osity is
it allows you to live a frictionless life, one without cameras monitoring you, one without having to prove that you are in fact you, 
one where you never lose your keys, never have to wait to buy a subway ticket, it just is. Osity is a next step in our evolution.

Welcome to the frictionless world.
