Soma
Jan 5 2024

 I recently had the opportunity to travel Tanzania where I spend 9 days climbing Mt Kilomanjaro.
 For anyone familiar with the region, Mt. Kilomanjaro is the largest standing mountain in Tanzania and 
 the continent of Africa at over 19,341ft or 5,895 meters. Kilomanjaro is unique because it is one of the only
 mountains to have 5 distinct climate regions, you start in the rainfortest, trek thorugh the Heather and Moorlands,
 then the alpine desert, and reach the top of a cold desloate glacier where snow is  relevant. It was a truly beutifil experience
 and it made me realize many things about myself and the world.

 I decided to climb the mountain because I was unhappy with my life, with my decisions, and who I was.

 At the same time I was reading Nitezche's Thus Spoke Zarathustra.

 Tanzania is also home to site of our ancenstors origins. The Olduvai Gorge which I unfortunately did not get to see
 is paleoanthropological site where the remains of our earliest ancenstrsos, the Homo Sapiens, were discovred. 

 After having a few days to reflect this is how my wordly expeirence and outlook has changed.

 Soma is a drug in the famous novel Brave New World. The premise of the book is this .....

 Although this novel is set as dystopian fiction I beleive it is even more relevant today than ever and the more I had time to reflect,
 the more I had.

 Points:
 - you cannot change who you are on these netowrks, it is very hard to change the recommended content unless you make
 a distinct and dramatic, willfull effort to do so 
 - nihlism and existentialism- on this trip I relized how much apart of content is to peoples lives, in fact it is their lives,
 their beleifs, and who they ultimately are- their is so much more power to what you see than we actually think. I truly beleive
 that something like social media can easily be weaponized, and ulitmately it has- if twitter was infltrated by the US governmentm
 than the probability that TikTok is extremely great even if they decounce they are- if theirs a will there is a way 
 - reality- one reason I felt so lost for such a long time is that my reality had become distorted, I had not seen the world for 
 what it truly was, I saw hate and division, not love and copassion. This trip, made me see the world for what it was, the goodness of people,
 and who I truly am
 - there is a balance in life, ying yang, pain and pleasure. I beleive you need both to have a meaningful experience, you cannot
 just have one. Social media is not social it is a psycocis of soma, a false hyper reality that is neither true nor false, it is
 a hallucination of the world, and it will ultimately destroy you 
 - the world is inherently open place even when it is not. If you have to discover how something works in the world you can do so
 by simple observation. If you want to discover why you are recommendated specific content, you cannot. 
 - advertisemens and late stage capitalism have destroyed the bliss and fabric of society. People are miserable, and as great as capitalism
 is, you can see ho negetively it has withered down society. People have given up their morals for more creative solutions. Adter all,
 advertising is rally just selling space and time/thoughts into someones mind. THe more you get them thinking about your product,
 the more influence you have- good or bad.
 - social media creates a divide between those who do and those who show. If you do have the money than you can be both, but most of
 today's content crators are no where close to the top of their field, or they once were and now have decided to stop. I beleive this is
 also something that is extremely flawed, people would rather show and tell than do- this is inherwent to human nature, but it has become oversaturated
 - no time to live, much of life is about your own experience, but with social media I've realized you are more often not living someone elses 
 expeience,you are outsourcing your human expeirence for someones elses that is either better or more exciting. In effect, you experience will 
 only become much worse and pathetic over time. This is why people are obsessed with tv shows, media, content creators, etc. anyone or anything that 
 is more exciting than their lives they will follow- this idea is extremely anti-human and it digs in the deeper issue of chasing pleasure- to live 
 you must have boring parts of your life and in these points you will actually find most of your purpose. On this trip I had over 120 hours of time to just 
 thinking about my life, who I am, and the deicions I've made in the past. I've never felt so refreshed and connected with myself that I have ever had before. 
 - THe past is not the past, it is ingrined in history. In the digital world everything you do and say is capturted in time. This is not only problematic,
 but it does not align iwth the physical reality as time is dynamic. People are actually experemtely forgiving becuase they are ultimately forgetful, yet if
 you can remind and show people why someone is bad via their past mistake, then that healing process never takes old. In effect, their is no moving on, and 
 this is something that is also anti-human. unfortunately this is something native to the digital world, although it has been extremely expunged and 
 enhanced through social media. This is something I really struggled with, I'm a worryer, so every past mistake I've made knowing it is public, and that sometone
 can use it against me really made me feel like shit. In was only have I made the realization that it doesn't matter and so what if someone does use it against you,
 it is not who you are now.

 Why I decided to climb a mountain?

 Escapeism

Henry David Throeua
I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms...
https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/2690-i-went-to-the-woods-because-i-wished-to-live

Chris Micandalis
https://www.goodreads.com/author/quotes/4973521.Christopher_McCandless

I was happy with who I was nor who I had become. For the past 6 years I've been in a lull, doing what other thgouths was right for me, and ultimately losing who I truly was.
Combined with a feed that fed a false sense of reality, I began to question my very exstence and identity to where it had come to the ponit,
that I was a few bad days from ending my own life. And I think everyone when their young feels the same way in a sense, lost and unkowing as to what and why 
they are perteualling thing unhappyness. But I realized that I was very unhappy with my life and I disocred it was due to a few reasons.

So I decided to climb a mountain for my 21st birthday, a monumental coming of age celebration, to see if I could set myself back on course.
A mountain is a good metaphor for life for the following...

I relized there are so many things that do not matter in life, that are outweighed

 Why I read nietzche?
 Neitzsche's phisolohy revolved around the idea of the Ubermensch or superman. The superman is an idealized version of a person, one who is capable of self overcoming. Another term
 Nietsche uses in the "will to power" which is an expression used to explain how you create you own deestiny. Cliche yes, but reading thus spoke zarathustra and meditating on
 Nietsches philosphy I found a lot of purpose in my life where I had once lost it. In the 19th centruy, Nietzshe famously said "God is Dead" and what he meant was that 
 the human experience no longer gained meaning and purpose from a higher ideal, it would have to gain it from somewhere else. In today's world it is obvious, it gains expereicne from the self 
 but also the selfs expereince. Most people gain meaning from what they consume and do, the products they use (Stanely Tubmler), the shows they watch, the ideologies they beleve in,
 the political parties they support etc. All modern beleif is grounded in the self, or is it? One thing I realized it that it is actually not, most people do not understand 
 Nitezche's philosphy, as their meaning does not come from the self, but from other things. Now I'm not saying I am an Ubermench, but my understanding 
 of Nitezhes philosphu and of my self have evolved. I now see the world more clearly than before.